Þe hweita nadr

Lü Dongbin, ain ab Þen Aht Undodendarn, kwamm niþ to erþ als en sälor und salde
swótsakar opp þet Brokana Brüg, te þiht þes Westrsaiw. En knab, hwe heit Xu Xian
büget swótsakar ab þet undodenda.

Aftir hwa Xu Xiang at þen swótsakar, ne had hungr te hweil enars þri dagars.
Hleup hinder þet swótsaksälor und frug hwatþurh. Lü Dongbin hluh

---

Adapted from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legend_of_the_White_Snake

Lü Dongbin, one of the Eight Immortals, disguises himself as a candy vendor at
the Broken Bridge near the West Lake in Hangzhou. A boy called Xu Xian buys
sweets from Lü Dongbin without knowing that they are actually immortality pills.
After eating them, he does not feel hungry for the next three days so he goes
back to ask the vendor why. Lü Dongbin laughs and carries Xu Xian to the bridge,
where he flips him upside-down and causes him to vomit the tangyuan into the
lake.

In the lake dwells a white snake spirit who has been practicing Taoist magical
arts. She eats the pills and gains 500 years' worth of magical powers. She,
therefore, feels grateful to Xu Xian, and their fates become intertwined. There
is another terrapin (or tortoise) spirit also training in the lake who did not
manage to consume any of the pills; he is very jealous of the white snake. One
day, the white snake sees a beggar on the bridge who has caught a green snake
and wants to dig out the snake's gall and sell it. The white snake transforms
into a woman and buys the green snake from the beggar, thus saving the green
snake's life. The green snake is grateful to the white snake and she regards the
white snake as an elder sister.

Eighteen years later, during the Qingming Festival, the white and green snakes
transform themselves into two young women called Bai Suzhen (白素貞) and
Xiaoqing (小青), respectively. They meet Xu Xian at the Broken Bridge in
Hangzhou. Xu Xian lends them his umbrella because it is raining. Xu Xian and Bai
Suzhen gradually fall in love and are eventually married. They move to
Zhenjiang, where they open a medicine shop.

In the meantime, the terrapin spirit has accumulated enough powers to take on
human form, so he transforms into a Buddhist monk called Fahai (法海). Still
angry with Bai Suzhen, Fahai plots to break up her relationship with Xu Xian. He
approaches Xu Xian and tells him that during the Duanwu Festival his wife should
drink realgar wine, an alcoholic drink commonly consumed during that festival.
Bai Suzhen unsuspectingly drinks the wine and reveals her true form as a large
white snake. Xu Xian dies of shock after seeing that his wife is not human. Bai
Suzhen and Xiaoqing travel to Mount Emei, where they brave danger to steal a
magical herb that restores Xu Xian to life. Diorama at Haw Par Villa, Singapore,
depicting the battle between Bai Suzhen and Fahai.

After coming back to life, Xu Xian still maintains his love for Bai Suzhen
despite knowing her true nature. Fahai tries to separate them again by capturing
Xu Xian and imprisoning him at the Jinshan Temple. Bai Suzhen and Xiaoqing fight
with Fahai to rescue Xu Xian. During the battle, Bai Suzhen uses her powers to
flood the temple, causing collateral damage and drowning many innocent people in
the process. However, her powers are limited because she is already pregnant
with Xu Xian's child, so she fails to save her husband. Xu Xian later manages to
escape from Jinshan Temple and reunite with his wife in Hangzhou, where Bai
Suzhen gives birth to their son, Xu Mengjiao (許夢蛟). Fahai tracks them down,
defeats Bai Suzhen and imprisons her in Leifeng Pagoda. Xiaoqing flees, vowing
vengeance.

Twenty years later, Xu Mengjiao earns the position of zhuangyuan (top scholar)
in the imperial examination and returns home in glory to visit his parents. At
the same time, Xiaoqing, who had spent the intervening years refining her
powers, goes to the Jinshan Temple to confront Fahai and defeats him. Bai Suzhen
is freed from Leifeng Pagoda and reunited with her husband and son, while Fahai
flees and hides inside the stomach of a crab. There is a saying that a crab's
internal fat is orange because it resembles the color of Fahai's kasaya.
